Greetings, RCs and translators!

The PostgreSQL 9.1 release is coming up very very soon.  As every year, it's up to you to give us the tremendous attention we get in the non-English press and blogs.  This is the way that we're able to advocate PostgreSQL against companies with million-dollar marketing budgets.  So thank you for making our open source PR work.

Also, let me apologize in advance.  This is going to be a really short deadline for translating the press releases -- I need translated versions by September 7.  I'm sorry for the short notice; I've had a great deal of difficulty rounding up the quotes, which delayed getting the final release together.  It's possible that the September 12 release date will get pushed back, in which case I'll let you know immediately.  But right now we need to plan on a Sept. 12 release.

Yes, really.  Please return translations by September 7.

I've attached a zip file with two files to translate:
release.txt - plain text release for the RCs to send out in email
presskit91.html - xhtml block for translating for the PostgreSQL.org website

For those of you who are comfortable using the Git version control system, I strongly urge you to edit using git instead.  We will not be using the CVS repository this year. See the document in the zip file for instructions on how to use Git for this (and don't translate that document).  If you really don't want to use Git, then please simply email me your final translated versions.

presskit.html contains places where you need to put in appropriate Regional Contact information for your language.  This is under <a name="contact"></a><h2>Contacts</h2>, and the text you need to replace is the text in ALL CAPS.   

As usual, the beginning of the presskit is identical text to the release.txt file, just with HTML markup.  Please avoid modifying any HTML tags in presskit.html, as it will be difficult for me to find and fix them in the translated versions.

Many of you are translating languages where there are muliple regional contacts and translators: Spanish, German, French, Portuguese.  On the Git repository, I've provided the English PR files at:

http://git.postgresql.org/gitweb/?p=press.git;a=tree;f=releases/9.1/en;h=26dc7f164041dc10cfff50e24a65bad88894756d;hb=HEAD

... as an example of how to handle multiple RCs: all of the RCs for a language go into the presskit, and each RC has their own release.

Important: all translated releases MUST be encoded in UTF8.  We cannot use other encodings for the web site.

Feel free to use this list to coordinate translating efforts, and to use Git to version-control your translations. Definitely use this list if you have any questions on how to translate something -- other translators will probably have it too!

Also, if you are a regional contact, and have not checked/updated your contact information for 2011, please do so now.  I've included a contact file in the zip for this purpose.  It does not need to be translated. 

Thanks again for helping with press translations on this short deadline, and helping make a big splash with 9.1.




